---
layout: post
title:  "Docuit"
teaser: "Docuit enforces good documentation."
date:   2016-05-01 21:28:55 +0200
categories:
 - development
 - readmin
 - automation
---

[Docuit] enforces good documentation.

It is a tool which makes sure your README stays up to date
and simplifies getting the needed parts out of the README.

When working with multiple repositories, maybe different languages, the steps
to `build`, `test`, `run` and `deploy` needs to be fetched to use the source.
In good cases with a proper documentation it is sometimes tedious to find that
over and over again.

Docuit parses the README for the needed part prints them out or can execute
the steps right away.  

 - `docuit.py check` to make sure all necessary parts exist and prints out what
   is missing.
 - `docuit.py build|test|run|deploy` Prints the content of the section.
 - `--exec` flag will execute the steps.

Using docuit makes sure all repositories have a similar README structure, simplifies
using of the code and with the right setup can also simplify the continues deploy
process: `docuit.py deploy --exec`.

Newly added it can check Pull Requests on documentation changes. I like
iterative processes and writing documentation and keeping it up to date is a
tricky part, IMHO mostly setting the priority to it. On the other hand,
changing anything at a code base should lead to documentation updates. So I
introduced the need of documentation updates in each Pull Request within the CI
server.





[Docuit]: https://github.com/TooAngel/docuit
